.TH "LIGHTNING-LIQUIDITY" 1 "May 2026" "lightning 0.6.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lightning-liquidity \- channel-liquidity management
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lightning liquidity
[\fIsubcommand\fR] [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nf
lightning liquidity — channel-liquidity management.

Implements FEAT-175, FEAT-210.

Subcommands:
  status                  TSV: channel inbound / outbound (sat)
  in <sat> [--provider <name>]    acquire INBOUND (want to receive more)
  out <sat> [--provider <name>]   acquire OUTBOUND (want to send more)
  loop in|out <sat>               Lightning Loop wrapper
  boltz in|out <sat>              Boltz wrapper
  lsp <name> buy <sat>            LSPS1 channel purchase
  provider default <name>         set the default
  blocktank info|buy|orders       Blocktank (Synonym) LSP — HTTP REST
  nostr offers|buy|sell|revoke    Nostr Kind 39735 liquidity discovery
.fi
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B status
Print a TSV table of per-channel inbound and outbound capacity in satoshis.
.TP
.B in <sat> [--provider <name>] [--yes]
Acquire inbound capacity.  Delegates to the configured provider (loop, boltz, lsp).
.TP
.B out <sat> [--provider <name>]
Acquire outbound capacity via Loop or Boltz submarine swap.
.TP
.B blocktank info
Show Blocktank LSP pricing and channel limits.
.TP
.B blocktank buy <sat> [--yes]
Buy inbound from Blocktank (Synonym's public LSP).  Pays via BOLT-11, then
polls until the channel opens.  Set BLOCKTANK_REFERRAL to embed a referral code.
.TP
.B blocktank orders
List your Blocktank orders by node pubkey.
.TP
.B nostr offers [--relay <wss>] [--max-ppm <n>] [--min-sat <n>] [--json]
Query Kind 39735 events from a Nostr relay and print active LSP offers as TSV.
Default relay: wss://lightning.bawee.site (override with LIGHTNING_NOSTR_RELAYS).
.TP
.B nostr buy <sat> [--from <npub>] [--relay <wss>] [--yes]
Accept the cheapest matching offer from the relay, connect to the LSP, and
settle via LSPS1 (requires cln-lsps plugin).
.TP
.B nostr sell <sat> --price <ppm> [--expiry <h>] [--relay <wss>]
Broadcast a Kind 39735 LSP offer as a parameterised replaceable event.
Requires coincurve (pip install coincurve) for secp256k1 signing.
Set LIGHTNING_NOSTR_KEY (hex privkey or nsec) to reuse the same Nostr identity.
.TP
.B nostr revoke [--relay <wss>]
Supersede your active offer with a status=inactive event.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BLOCKTANK_API
Blocktank API base URL (default: https://blocktank.synonym.to/api/v2).
.TP
.B BLOCKTANK_REFERRAL
Referral token appended to Blocktank orders.
.TP
.B LIGHTNING_NOSTR_RELAYS
Space-separated list of wss:// relay URLs used by the nostr subcommands.
.TP
.B LIGHTNING_NOSTR_KEY
Hex-encoded private key (or nsec) for signing Kind 39735 events.
.TP
.B LIGHTNING_LSP_TIMEOUT_S
Seconds to poll for channel open (default: 600).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lightning (1),
.BR lightning-channel (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Part of the \fBlightning\fR educational Lightning Network frontend.
