.TH "LIGHTNING-COMPLIANCE" 1 "May 2026" "lightning 0.6.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lightning-compliance \- toggleable, jurisdiction-agnostic compliance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lightning compliance
[\fIsubcommand\fR] [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nf
lightning compliance — toggleable, jurisdiction-agnostic compliance
framework (FEAT-233).

  THESE TOOLS PROVIDE TECHNICAL CAPABILITIES, NOT LEGAL ADVICE.
  See share/lightning/compliance/DISCLAIMER.txt — consult a qualified
  local lawyer before operating a custodial service.

The framework is OFF until the operator opts in by writing a
compliance.recfile (via `compliance preset <name>` or by hand).  It
only earns its keep on a hosted, custodial, system-mode deployment;
a personal / own-funds node leaves every module off.

Subcommands:
  status                       which modules are on (+ disclaimer)
  preset <name>                write a jurisdiction bundle of toggles
  hook <when> <op> [<ctx>]     dispatch the compliance hooks for a
                               value-moving / lifecycle point.
                               <when> = pre | post | lifecycle.
                               A pre-hook may DENY (exit 6 + JSON
                               error); post/lifecycle observe + record.

Modules (logic ships per sub-ticket FEAT-234..242; this framework
lands them all as no-ops + a self-test module):
  kyc screening monitoring travel_rule retention reporting
  data_subject_rights proof_of_reserves disclosures test
.fi
.SH USAGE
.nf
usage: lightning compliance <subcommand>

   status              which compliance modules are enabled (+ disclaimer)
   preset <name>       apply a jurisdiction bundle of module toggles
                       (off minimal de-private de-custodial us-msb
                        uk-fca fr-psan ru br-bcb za-fic)
   hook <when> <op>    internal: dispatch pre/post/lifecycle hooks

These tools provide technical capabilities, NOT legal advice.  Consult
a qualified local lawyer before operating a custodial service.
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lightning (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Part of the \fBlightning\fR educational Lightning Network frontend.
