.TH "LIGHTNING-REBALANCE" 1 "May 2026" "lightning 0.6.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lightning-rebalance \- circular self-payment + swap fallback (FEAT-201)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lightning rebalance
[\fIsubcommand\fR] [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nf
lightning rebalance — circular self-payment + swap fallback (FEAT-201).

Top-level one-shot verb (not an object dispatcher). Wraps the
`rebalance` plugin's JSON-RPC when present; falls back to a
`liquidity loop|boltz` swap when no LN route exists and
--fallback swap is set.

Pairs with `lightning fee` (FEAT-200, passive layer) and the
`feeadjuster` plugin (continuous). Tier-3 of the operational
guide (FEAT-202): expensive enough that you don't run it from
cron — operator's explicit decision when a channel is stuck.
.fi
.SH USAGE
.nf
usage: lightning rebalance <amount-sat> [--from <chan>] [--to <chan>]
                                        [--max-fee-ppm N] [--max-fee-sat N]
                                        [--dry-run]
                                        [--fallback swap|none]

   Move <amount-sat> from one channel to another via a circular
   self-payment (LN-internal) or a submarine swap (on-chain
   fallback). Wraps the `rebalance` plugin's JSON-RPC; install
   first via:

       lightning plugin install rebalance

Channel selection:
   --from <chan>   source (where the sats leave). Optional.
   --to <chan>     destination (where they arrive). Optional.
                   With neither, the rebalance plugin picks the
                   most asymmetric pair automatically.

Fee caps (whichever is lower wins):
   --max-fee-ppm N    default 500 (=0.05%)
   --max-fee-sat N    absolute cap

Other:
   --dry-run          print the chosen route + estimated cost,
                      don't pay
   --fallback swap    if LN circular fails, try \e`liquidity loop\e`
                      or \e`liquidity boltz\e` (default: none)
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lightning (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Part of the \fBlightning\fR educational Lightning Network frontend.
