.TH "LIGHTNING-INVOICE" 1 "May 2026" "lightning 0.6.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lightning-invoice \- BOLT-11 invoices (create + pay)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lightning invoice
[\fIsubcommand\fR] [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nf
lightning invoice — BOLT-11 invoices (create + pay).

Implements: BOLT-11 per FEAT-173.
  share/doc/lightning/standards/bolts/11-payment-encoding.md

Subcommands:
  create <sat> <label> [--description <text>] [--expiry <sec>]
                                             [--qr] [--account <name>]
  pay <bolt11> [--max-fee-sat N] [--timeout S]
               [--account <name>] [--note <text>]
.fi
.SH USAGE
.nf
usage: lightning invoice <subcommand> [args]

   BOLT-11 invoices — single-use, addressed payment requests.
   Mint one to receive a payment; pay one to send. Each invoice
   has a unique payment_hash and amount. See
   share/doc/lightning/standards/bolts/11-payment-encoding.md
   for the encoding spec. Each sub-command also accepts --help.

subcommands:
   create <sat> <label> [--description <text>] [--expiry <sec>]
                        [--qr] [--account <name>]
   pay <bolt11> [--max-fee-sat N] [--timeout S]
                [--account <name>] [--note <text>]
   stats [--field <name>]       comprehensive JSON invoice statistics
   status <label>               status, amount, expiry for an invoice
   cancel <label>               delete an unpaid invoice
   expire <label>               alias for cancel (delinvoice unpaid)
   delete <label> <status>      delete by label + status
   lookup <label>               full invoice record
   wait <label> [--timeout N]   block until paid or timeout
   settle <label>               check if an invoice is settled
   summary                      totals: paid/unpaid/expired/received
   list-all                     all invoices with by_status breakdown
   list-paid                    paid invoices
   list-pending                 unpaid invoices
   list-expired                 expired invoices
   list-active                  unpaid + not yet expired
   list-by-status <status>      filter by paid|unpaid|expired
   bolt11-decode <bolt11>       decode a BOLT-11 invoice
   bolt11-check <bolt11>        validate + expiry check
   payment-hash <label>         extract payment_hash
   description <label>          extract description
   qr-data <bolt11>             LIGHTNING:<UPPER> QR payload
   keysend <node_id> <msat>     send a keysend payment
.fi
.SH STATS
.nf
lightning invoice stats [--field <name>]

Single pass over listinvoices. Fields:
  total_count, paid_count, unpaid_count, expired_count, active_count,
  total_received_msat, max_amount_msat, min_amount_msat,
  avg_amount_msat, avg_received_msat.

Use --field <name> to extract a single value.
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lightning (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Part of the \fBlightning\fR educational Lightning Network frontend.
