.TH "LIGHTNING-WALLET-USER" 1 "May 2026" "lightning 1.3.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lightning-wallet-user \- manage the wallet-user layer above accounts (FEAT-222)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lightning wallet-user
\fIsubcommand\fR [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
A wallet-user is a human identity (passkey-authed in the PWA) that owns
one or more accounts.  One user can hold multiple accounts; accounts may
be anonymous (no owner) or owned.  This verb is the CLI / operator
bootstrap path; end-user registration is passkey-gated via the HTTP API.

Wallet-users are stored in the \fBwallet_users\fR table (not the
FEAT-176 \fBusers\fR table, which maps Lightning-Address localparts).
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.B create
[\fB\-\-label\fR \fItext\fR] [\fB\-\-referrer\fR \fIuser\-id\fR]
.RS
Mint a new wallet-user.  Operator bootstrap — no invite required.
.RE
.PP
.B list
.RS
Print a TSV of all users with their owned-account counts.
.RE
.PP
.B show
\fIid\fR
.RS
Print the user's profile and the accounts they own.
.RE
.PP
.B delete
\fIid\fR
.RS
Remove the user.  Owned accounts are orphaned (owner_user → NULL),
not deleted.
.RE
.PP
.B cap
\fIid\fR \fIN\fR|\fBunlimited\fR
.RS
Set the maximum number of transitive downstream users that \fIid\fR
may have.  0 = no inviting at all; \fBunlimited\fR (or \fBnone\fR)
clears the cap (NULL in the DB).  Any ancestor may cap a user's
downline.  Enforcement fires at invite-code mint time.
.RE
.PP
.B tree
[\fIid\fR]
.RS
Print the referral tree rooted at \fIid\fR (default: the full tree).
Each line shows the user id, label, cap, and depth.
.RE
.PP
.B lineage
\fIid\fR
.RS
Walk from \fIid\fR up to the root, printing each ancestor in order.
.RE
.PP
.B invite-code create
\fIid\fR \fB\-\-credit\-account\fR \fIacct\fR [\fB\-\-code\fR \fIvanity\fR]
.RS
Mint an invite code owned by \fIid\fR.  When a new account is created
with this code, referral credit goes to \fIacct\fR.  Blocked if any
ancestor's downline cap would be exceeded.
.RE
.PP
.B invite-code list
\fIid\fR
.RS
List the invite codes owned by \fIid\fR.
.RE
.PP
.B invite-code revoke
\fIcode\fR
.RS
Delete an invite code so it can no longer be used.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Bootstrap the first user (operator)
lightning wallet-user create --label alice

# Add a referred user
lightning wallet-user create --label bob --referrer <alice-id>

# Limit alice's downline to 10 transitive members
lightning wallet-user cap <alice-id> 10

# Create an invite code for alice linked to her main account
lightning wallet-user invite-code create <alice-id> \\
    --credit-account <alice-account-addr>

# Show the full referral tree
lightning wallet-user tree
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lightning (1),
.BR lightning-wallet (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Part of the \fBlightning\fR educational Lightning Network frontend.
