.TH "LIGHTNING-UI" 1 "May 2026" "lightning 0.6.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lightning-ui \- install/uninstall/upgrade the wallet PWA (FEAT-209)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lightning ui
[\fIsubcommand\fR] [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nf
lightning ui — install/uninstall/upgrade the wallet PWA (FEAT-209).

The PWA is a thin, static, same-origin client for the FEAT-212
account HTTP API: open the URL, create an account, see your top-up
address, pay BOLT-11s, mint receive invoices.  All the heavy lifting
(crediting on-chain deposits, GC, rebalancing) is the node's cron
sidecars; the PWA just talks to /.well-known/lightning/v1.

Subcommands:
  install [<docroot>] [--apache-vhost <name>] [--no-vhost]
      Copy share/lightning/ui/ -> docroot (default
      /var/www/html/lightning) and write an Apache vhost fragment
      (share/lightning/apache/ui.conf) the operator Includes from
      their main <VirtualHost>.  Defence-in-depth: -ExecCGI -Indexes.
  uninstall [<docroot>]
      Remove the docroot tree + the vhost fragment.
  upgrade [<docroot>]
      Reinstall the static files, preserving an operator-edited
      config.json.
.fi
.SH USAGE
.nf
usage: lightning ui <subcommand>

   install [<docroot>] [--apache-vhost <name>] [--no-vhost]
                        copy the PWA to <docroot> (default
                        $DEFAULT_DOCROOT) + write an Apache vhost
                        fragment.  Same-origin; no backend switch.
   uninstall [<docroot>]
                        remove the docroot tree + vhost fragment
   upgrade [<docroot>]  reinstall static files, keep config.json

The PWA is a thin client for the FEAT-212 account API under
/.well-known/lightning/v1.  Inline docs ship under <docroot>/docs/.
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lightning (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Part of the \fBlightning\fR educational Lightning Network frontend.
