.TH "LIGHTNING-ALERT" 1 "May 2026" "lightning 0.6.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lightning-alert \- threshold-driven webhooks (FEAT-204)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lightning alert
[\fIsubcommand\fR] [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nf
lightning alert — threshold-driven webhooks (FEAT-204).

Rules live as recfiles under $LIGHTNING_DIR/alerts/<name>.conf.
`alert run` evaluates every rule, fires the matching webhook
when the condition trips, honours per-rule cooldown.

Designed to be invoked from a scheduler — `daemon enable`
writes a sidecar (launchd / systemd .timer) that calls
`alert run` every minute.
.fi
.SH USAGE
.nf
usage: lightning alert <subcommand> [args]

   Threshold-driven webhooks for node monitoring. Rules live
   as recfiles under \e$LIGHTNING_DIR/alerts/<name>.conf;
   \e`alert run\e` evaluates them and fires webhooks when
   conditions trip. Designed for scheduler invocation.

subcommands:
   create <name> --on <condition> --webhook <url>
          [--threshold <value>] [--cooldown <duration>]
                              create or replace a rule
   list                       all rules (recfile, multi-record)
   remove <name>              delete a rule and its cooldown state
   test <name>                evaluate once; if firing, send a
                              [TEST] webhook even past cooldown
   run [--once]               evaluate every rule, fire matching
                              webhooks (sidecar entry point)

conditions:
   peer_offline               any peer in .connected = false
   channel_offline            any normal channel with peer offline
   channel_ratio_outside      any normal channel outside
                              [<lo>%, <hi>%] (threshold "lo,hi";
                              default "10,90")
   daemon_down                lightning-cli getinfo fails
   balance_below              on-chain balance < threshold sat
   low_inbound_capacity       total inbound < threshold sat

webhooks:
   https://hooks.slack.com/...    Slack incoming webhook
   https://discord.com/api/...    Discord webhook
   https://api.telegram.org/...   Telegram bot sendMessage
   mailto:<addr>                  shells out to mail(1)
   https://other/...              generic POST {alert: "<msg>"}
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lightning (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Part of the \fBlightning\fR educational Lightning Network frontend.
