.TH "LIGHTNING-DAEMON" 1 "May 2026" "lightning 0.6.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lightning-daemon \- lightningd lifecycle management
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lightning daemon
[\fIsubcommand\fR] [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nf
lightning daemon — lightningd lifecycle management.

Implements FEAT-183. Subcommands:
  start    — bring up lightningd (background; --daemon or via supervisor)
  run      — bring up lightningd in foreground (for launchd/systemd Type=simple)
  stop     — graceful shutdown via `lightning-cli stop`
  restart  — stop + start
  status   — health check (process / RPC / sync / unlock)
  logs     — tail the live log
  install  — generate a service unit
             Linux: systemd (~/.config/systemd/user/lightning.service)
                    or system-mode (/etc/systemd/system/clightningd.service)
             Alpine: OpenRC (/etc/init.d/clightningd) — system-only
             macOS: launchd (~/Library/LaunchAgents/<label>.plist)
.fi
.SH USAGE
.nf
usage: lightning daemon <subcommand> [args]

   Lifecycle of the underlying clightningd process. Detects the
   right supervisor for the platform:
     • macOS — launchd (~/Library/LaunchAgents/...)
     • Linux — systemd --user, or system-mode (FEAT-183 three-user
       layout: dedicated \e`clightning\e` user owns the daemon, the
       operator owns the wallet repo, www-data runs the CGI).
   Each sub-command also accepts --help.

subcommands:
   start                  bring up lightningd (background)
   run                    bring up lightningd in foreground
                          (for launchd / systemd Type=simple)
   stop                   graceful shutdown
   restart                stop + start
   status                 health check
   logs [-f]              tail the daemon log
   install [--system] [--migrate]
                          generate a service unit (systemd on Linux,
                          launchd on macOS). --system writes a
                          system-wide unit (Linux three-user layout).
   install-core [--rpk|--brew|--apk|--source|--podman]
                [--version <tag>] [--system] [--yes]
                [--force] [--dry-run]
                          install Core Lightning itself (FEAT-207).
                          With no backend flag, auto-detects per
                          platform.  All five backends are implemented.
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lightning (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Part of the \fBlightning\fR educational Lightning Network frontend.
