.TH "LIGHTNING-EXPORT" 1 "May 2026" "lightning 0.6.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lightning-export \- tax-relevant transaction DATA export (FEAT-230)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lightning export
[\fIsubcommand\fR] [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nf
lightning export — tax-relevant transaction DATA export (FEAT-230).

This produces SOURCE DATA for tax preparation — NOT a tax report, not
a declaration, and not tax advice.  Every movement is valued in a base
fiat at the FEAT-229 price for its timestamp; disposals are FIFO
lot-matched against acquisitions so the filer (or their advisor) can
compute gains.  German private-sale (§23 EStG) is the reference for
WHICH fields to include; simpler regimes use a subset.

Subcommand:
  tax-data <account|--operator> --year YYYY [--base EUR] [--format csv|json]

    account     a user account (handle: name or bech32 address) — walks
                its ledger, classifies in=acquisition / out=disposal,
                FIFO-matches, emits per-disposal rows + an annual summary.
    --operator  the house account's fee-revenue rows valued at receipt
                (the operator's business-income inputs).

Missing price for a timestamp is surfaced as an explicit gap marker —
never silently valued at 0.
.fi
.SH USAGE
.nf
usage: lightning export tax-data <account|--operator> --year YYYY [--base EUR] [--format csv|json]

   Source data for tax preparation (NOT a report / not advice).
   Disposals are FIFO-matched against acquisitions and fiat-valued at
   the price for each timestamp; missing prices show as gaps.
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lightning (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Part of the \fBlightning\fR educational Lightning Network frontend.
