.TH LIGHTNING 1 "May 2026" "lightning 0.6.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lightning \- educational Lightning Network frontend on clightning
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lightning
[\fB\-d\fR] [\fB\-q\fR] \fIcommand\fR [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lightning
is the educational Lightning Network frontend targeting clightning
(Core Lightning) as the single backend. Verbs shell out to
\fIlightning-cli\fR; help text cites the BOLT each verb implements.

The four design principles:

.IP \[bu] 2
.B Educational.
Each verb cites the BOLT it implements (BOLT 1..12) plus LNURL and
Lightning Address standards.
.IP \[bu]
.B Functional.
Each verb is a thin wrapper over \fIlightning-cli\fR.
.IP \[bu]
.B Decentralized.
No custodial layer; the user's node is the trust boundary.
.IP \[bu]
.B Simple.
.I lightning
calls only the
.IR account (1)
package at runtime;
on-chain channel funding is handled by clightning's built-in wallet.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LIGHTNING_DIR
Path to clightning's data dir. Default
.IR $HOME/.lightning .
.TP
.B LIGHTNING_NETWORK
.IR bitcoin " | " testnet " | " regtest " | " signet .
Default
.IR bitcoin .
.TP
.B LIGHTNING_WALLETS_ROOT
Where multi-account wallet repos live. Default
.IR $HOME/.lightning/wallet .

.SH SUBCOMMANDS

.SS Node introspection
.TP
.B info
Summary of \fIgetinfo\fR.
.TP
.B node-id
Print this node's pubkey.
.TP
.B peers
TSV of connected peers.
.TP
.B channels
TSV of channels.
.TP
.B balance \fR[\fB--on-chain\fR]
On-chain confirmed / unconfirmed / channel balance. With
\fB--on-chain\fR, prints a receive address from \fInewaddr\fR.

.SS Channels (BOLT-2, BOLT-5)
.TP
.B channel list
TSV of all channels.
.TP
.B channel open \fI<node-uri>\fR \fI<sats>\fR \fR[\fB--push\fR \fI<sats>\fR]
Open a channel. Funding comes from clightning's on-chain wallet.
.TP
.B channel close \fI<id>\fR
Cooperative close.
.TP
.B channel force-close \fI<id>\fR \fB--confirm\fR
Unilateral close. Costs the
.IR to_self_delay
(typically 144 blocks); the
.B --confirm
flag is mandatory.
.TP
.B channel balance \fR[\fI<id>\fR]
Per-channel local / remote msat.
.TP
.B channel info \fI<id>\fR
.TP
.B channel pending
Opening / closing channels.

.SS Send payments (BOLT-11, BOLT-12, keysend)
.TP
.B pay \fI<bolt11>\fR \fR[\fB--max-fee-sat\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB--timeout\fR \fIS\fR]
Pay a BOLT-11 invoice.
.TP
.B pay offer \fI<bolt12-offer>\fR \fR[\fI<sat>\fR] [\fB--message\fR \fI<text>\fR]
Fetch invoice via BOLT-12 offer + pay.
.TP
.B pay keysend \fI<node-id>\fR \fI<sat>\fR \fR[\fB--message\fR \fI<text>\fR]
Keysend payment.

.SS Request / receive payments (req)
.TP
.B req invoice \fI<sat>\fR \fI<label>\fR \fR[\fB--description\fR \fI<text>\fR] [\fB--expiry\fR \fI<sec>\fR] [\fB--qr\fR]
Mint a BOLT-11 invoice.
.TP
.B req offer \fI<sat>\fR|\fIany\fR \fI<description>\fR \fR[\fB--qr\fR]
Create a BOLT-12 reusable offer.
.TP
.B req decode \fI<string>\fR
Detect + decode any of: BOLT-11, BOLT-12 offer, BOLT-12 invoice,
LNURL, Lightning Address. Strips a leading \fIlightning:\fR BIP-21
prefix.
.TP
.B req qr \fI<text>\fR \fR[\fB--png\fR \fIFILE\fR | \fB--svg\fR \fIFILE\fR | \fB--ansi\fR]
Render a QR. ANSI to stdout by default.

.SS Wallet + accounts
.TP
.B wallet new \fI<name>\fR
Initialise a git-backed wallet repo with a fresh
.I state.db
(see
.IR /usr/share/lightning/schema.sql ).
.TP
.B wallet use \fI<name>\fR
Set the active wallet.
.TP
.B wallet list | active | path
.TP
.B wallet push | pull | sync \fR[\fI<remote>\fR]
Git round-trip with the
.I state.sql
dump.
.TP
.B account list \fR[\fB--balances\fR]
.TP
.B account create \fI<name>\fR \fR[\fI<desc>\fR] [\fB--limit\fR \fI<sat>\fR] [\fB--overdraft\fR \fIdeny\fR|\fIwarn\fR|\fIallow\fR] [\fB--host\fR \fI<domain>\fR]
With \fB--host\fR, auto-issues \fI<name>@<domain>\fR via
.B address create.
.TP
.B account delete \fI<name>\fR
.TP
.B account show \fI<name>\fR
.TP
.B account apikey \fIcreate\fR|\fIlist\fR|\fIrevoke\fR \fI<name>\fR \fB--scope\fR \fIread\fR|\fIwrite\fR
Issue API keys for the well-known JSON API (FEAT-196).

.SS Ledger
.TP
.B ledger list \fR[\fB--account\fR \fI<n>\fR] [\fB--since\fR \fI<date>\fR] [\fB--limit\fR \fIN\fR]
.TP
.B ledger sum \fR[\fB--by\fR \fIaccount\fR|\fIday\fR|\fImonth\fR|\fIyear\fR]
.TP
.B ledger balance \fR[\fI<account>\fR]
.TP
.B ledger annotate \fI<payment_hash>\fR \fI<note>\fR
Set the local-only \fInote\fR column.
.TP
.B ledger statement \fB--account\fR \fI<n>\fR \fB--period\fR \fIYYYY-MM\fR|\fIYYYY-Q[1-4]\fR|\fIYYYY\fR \fR[\fB--tsv\fR]
.TP
.B ledger export \fIcsv\fR|\fIjsonl\fR|\fItsv\fR
.TP
.B history
Alias for \fBledger list\fR.

.SS Seed + backups
.TP
.B seed export | import | verify
Wraps clightning's
.IR hsm_secret .
.TP
.B scb emit \fR[\fB--out\fR \fIFILE\fR]
Static Channel Backup. Default destination is the active wallet's
\fIscb/\fR dir.
.TP
.B scb restore \fIFILE\fR
Triggers force-closes by peers; on-chain funds become spendable
after the to_self_delay.
.TP
.B backup \fR[\fB--seed\fR] [\fB--remote\fR \fI<name>\fR]
SCB + state.sql + git push.
.TP
.B restore \fI<wallet-remote-url>\fR \fR[\fI<name>\fR]
Clone + seed import + scb restore.

.SS Liquidity
.TP
.B liquidity status
Per-channel inbound / outbound (sat).
.TP
.B liquidity in \fI<sat>\fR \fR[\fB--provider\fR \fI<name>\fR]
Acquire inbound (the primary user story).
.TP
.B liquidity out \fI<sat>\fR
.TP
.B liquidity loop \fIin\fR|\fIout\fR \fI<sat>\fR
.TP
.B liquidity boltz \fIin\fR|\fIout\fR \fI<sat>\fR
.TP
.B liquidity lsp \fI<name>\fR \fIbuy\fR \fI<sat>\fR
BLIP-51 (LSPS1) channel purchase.
.TP
.B liquidity provider default \fI<name>\fR

.SS Addresses (LUD-16)
.TP
.B address create \fI<user@domain>\fR \fR[\fB--account\fR \fI<n>\fR]
Apache-detected; refuses without
.IR apache2 .
.TP
.B address pay \fI<addr>\fR \fI<sat>\fR \fR[\fB--comment\fR \fI<text>\fR]
.TP
.B address resolve \fI<addr>\fR
.TP
.B address list | remove
.TP
.B address apache-snippet
Emit the drop-in vhost fragment.

.SS Daemon control
.TP
.B daemon start | stop | restart | status | monitor
.TP
.B daemon install \fR[\fB--rpk|--brew|--apk|--source|--podman\fR] [\fB--version\fR \fItag\fR] [\fB--system\fR] [\fB--yes\fR] [\fB--force\fR] [\fB--dry-run\fR]
Install Core Lightning itself (the lightningd binary).
.TP
.B daemon enable \fR[\fB--user|--system\fR] [\fB--migrate\fR]
Write a service unit (systemd / launchd / OpenRC).
With \fB--system\fR, provisions the
.B clightning
system user + \fI/var/lib/clightning/\fR + systemd unit.

.SS Wallet unlock
.TP
.B unlock \fR[\fB--stored\fR | \fIrotate\fR | \fIforget\fR] [\fB--wallet\fR \fI<name>\fR]
clightning HSM unlock + secret-store integration.

.SS Tor
.TP
.B tor on | off | status
Manages
.IR lightningd.conf 's
\fIproxy=\fR and \fIaddr=statictor:\fR settings; restarts the daemon.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I $LIGHTNING_DIR/
clightning data dir. See \fI/usr/share/lightning/standards/cln-overview.md\fR.
.TP
.I $LIGHTNING_WALLETS_ROOT/<name>/
git-backed wallet repo. Contains \fIstate.db\fR (SQLite, gitignored)
and \fIstate.sql\fR (the dump that travels).
.TP
.I /usr/share/lightning/schema.sql
SQLite schema (FEAT-193).
.TP
.I /usr/share/lightning/wellknown/
Python CGI scripts for Apache: \fIlnurlp/handler.py\fR (FEAT-176) and
\fIlightning/{send,recv,balance}.py\fR (FEAT-196).
.TP
.I /usr/share/lightning/apache/lnurlp.conf
Drop-in vhost fragment.
.TP
.I /usr/share/lightning/sudoers.d/lightning
Bridge fragment for \fIwww-data\fR to call the \fIapi-*\fR verbs as
the operator. Installed via
.B make install-apache-bridge.

.SH STANDARDS
The full set of vendored specs lives under
.IR /usr/share/lightning/standards/ .
The
.B Lightning Well-Known JSON API
spec (FEAT-196) is at \fIapi/spec.md\fR.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
success
.TP
1
generic error (unknown verb, bad args)
.TP
2
business-rule failure (e.g.
.B channel force-close
without
.BR --confirm )
.TP
3
configuration failure (e.g. apache not installed)
.TP
4
payment / unlock failure
.TP
127
soft-dep absent (lightning-cli, sqlite3, qrencode, ...)

.SH SEE ALSO
Per-verb manual pages (one per top-level command):
.BR lightning-account (1),
.BR lightning-address (1),
.BR lightning-alert (1),
.BR lightning-backup (1),
.BR lightning-balance (1),
.BR lightning-channel (1),
.BR lightning-channels (1),
.BR lightning-compliance (1),
.BR lightning-daemon (1),
.BR lightning-decode (1),
.BR lightning-export (1),
.BR lightning-fee (1),
.BR lightning-fee-policy (1),
.BR lightning-forward (1),
.BR lightning-history (1),
.BR lightning-info (1),
.BR lightning-invoice (1),
.BR lightning-ledger (1),
.BR lightning-liquidity (1),
.BR lightning-lnurl (1),
.BR lightning-node-id (1),
.BR lightning-offer (1),
.BR lightning-offer-pay (1),
.BR lightning-pay (1),
.BR lightning-peer (1),
.BR lightning-peers (1),
.BR lightning-plugin (1),
.BR lightning-price (1),
.BR lightning-qr (1),
.BR lightning-rebalance (1),
.BR lightning-restore (1),
.BR lightning-scb (1),
.BR lightning-seed (1),
.BR lightning-send (1),
.BR lightning-statistics (1),
.BR lightning-tor (1),
.BR lightning-tower (1),
.BR lightning-ui (1),
.BR lightning-unlock (1),
.BR lightning-wallet (1),
.BR lightning-wallet-user (1).
.PP
Backend + system tooling:
.BR account (1),
.BR secret (1),
.BR config (1),
.BR lightningd (8),
.BR lightning-cli (1),
.BR lightning-hsmtool (8).

The vendored standards:
.IR /usr/share/lightning/standards/ .

.SH AUTHOR
nostra124. Source:
.UR https://github.com/nostra124/lightning
.UE .
