.TH "LIGHTNING-PEER" 1 "May 2026" "lightning 0.6.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lightning-peer \- Lightning network peering
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lightning peer
[\fIsubcommand\fR] [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nf
lightning peer — Lightning network peering.

Peers in clightning are persistent TCP connections to other nodes.
Channels are owned by `lightning channel`; this object covers the
bare peering layer (connect, disconnect, list, bootstrap). Bare
peering is the prerequisite for gossip graph sync, BOLT-12
fetchinvoice, and LSPS1 / LSP channel-open requests.
.fi
.SH USAGE
.nf
usage: lightning peer <subcommand> [args]

   Manage Lightning network peering — persistent TCP connections
   to other nodes. Peers don't imply channels; they're the
   prerequisite for gossip sync, BOLT-12 fetchinvoice, and any
   LSP / LSPS1 inbound-liquidity request.

subcommands:
   list                       connected peers (TSV); --raw keeps the
                              BOLT-9 feature hex instead of decoding
   connect <node-uri>         open a bare TCP connection
                              (pubkey@host:port)
   disconnect <node-id>       tear down the connection
   bootstrap [-n N]           connect to N well-known nodes AND
                              persist them as important-peer= in
                              \e$LIGHTNING_DIR/config (lightningd will
                              auto-reconnect on next start)
   reconnect [-n N]           alias for bootstrap — convenient name
                              after a network outage / laptop sleep
   keepalive [--threshold N]  top up peer count when below threshold;
             [--target N]     designed for cron / launchd / systemd
                              timer invocation. \e$LIGHTNING_NO_BOOTSTRAP
                              skips both bootstrap and keepalive.
   score <node-id>            pre-channel-open intelligence from
        [--source mempool|1ml|amboss|auto]
        [--json] [--no-cache]
                              public Lightning network analytics;
                              recfile output. 1h cache under
                              \e$LIGHTNING_DIR/score-cache/.
   stats [--field <name>]    comprehensive JSON statistics for all peers
                              and channels (counts, capacity, balances,
                              fee revenue, HTLC counts, reserves).
   connected <peer_id>       check if peer is currently connected (JSON)
   reputation <peer_id>      peer reputation: channels, capacity, state
   routing-score <peer_id>   count of active CHANNELD_NORMAL channels
   reconnect-peer <peer_id>  disconnect then reconnect a specific peer
   disconnect-all            disconnect all currently connected peers
   node-info <node_id>       gossip node info (alias, color, addresses)
   features <peer_id>        BOLT-9 feature bitmap for a peer
   gossip-info <node_id>     gossip layer info for a node
   reachability <node_id>    check reachability (connected + netaddr)
   reachable <node_id>       alias for reachability
   open-channel <peer_id> <sat>  open a channel to this peer
   scb-backup                static channel backup peer count
   send-custom <peer_id> <type> <data>  send a custom message
   score-list                list all peers with basic score info
   alias <node_id>           look up a peer's alias
   channels <peer_id>        list channels for a specific peer
   summary <peer_id>         compact summary: connected, balances, addr
.fi
.SH STATS
.nf
lightning peer stats [--field <name>]

Runs a single pass over listpeers + listpeerchannels + listforwards and
emits a comprehensive JSON object. Fields include:
  peer_count, connected_count, disconnected_count, connected_pct,
  channel_count, active_channel_count, htlc_count_total,
  capacity_{total,avg,min,max,range,stddev,median}_msat,
  local_balance_{total,avg,stddev,variance}_msat,
  remote_balance_{total,avg,stddev}_msat,
  local_pct_{avg,stddev,variance},
  spendable_{total,avg,max}_msat, receivable_{total,avg}_msat,
  our_reserve_{total,avg}_msat, their_reserve_total_msat,
  fee_revenue_total_msat, fee_revenue_by_channel.

Use --field <name> to extract a single value.
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lightning (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Part of the \fBlightning\fR educational Lightning Network frontend.
