.TH "LIGHTNING-CHANNEL" 1 "May 2026" "lightning 0.6.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lightning-channel \- channel management
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lightning channel
[\fIsubcommand\fR] [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nf
lightning channel — channel management.

Implements: BOLT-2 (peer protocol) + BOLT-5 (on-chain close) per
FEAT-172, plus Static Channel Backup (SCB) per FEAT-185.
  share/doc/lightning/standards/bolts/02-peer-protocol.md
  share/doc/lightning/standards/bolts/05-onchain.md

Subcommands:
  list                                — TSV of channels
  open  <node-uri> <sats> [--push <sats>]
                                       — fund a new channel
  close <channel-id>                   — cooperative close
  force-close <channel-id> --confirm   — unilateral; loud warning
  balance [<channel-id>]               — local / remote msat
  info <channel-id>
  pending                              — opening / closing
  scb emit [--out <file>]              — static channel backup
  scb restore <file>                   — restore from SCB
.fi
.SH USAGE
.nf
usage: lightning channel <subcommand> [args]

   Manage Lightning channels — the peer-to-peer payment funnels
   that move sats between nodes. Implements BOLT-2 (peer protocol)
   and BOLT-5 (on-chain close), plus Static Channel Backup for
   disaster recovery. Each sub-command also accepts --help.

subcommands:
   list                                 TSV of all channels
   open <node-uri> <sats> [--push <sats>]
                                        open a channel
   close <channel-id>                   cooperative close
   force-close <channel-id> --confirm   unilateral close (costly!)
   balance [<channel-id>]               local / remote msat
   info <channel-id>
   pending                              opening / closing channels
   scb emit [--out <file>]              static channel backup
   scb restore <file>                   restore from SCB
   autopilot run|status|suggest         combined fee + rebalance +
                                        suggest daemon (FEAT-205);
                                        opt-in sidecar via
                                        'daemon install --autopilot'
   paytarget-intel [--days N] [--top N] [--dry-run]
                                        suggest channels to the
                                        destinations users pay most
                                        (FEAT-217); fed by the autopilot
.fi
.SH STATS
The \fBstats\fR subcommand computes all statistical metrics over channels in one
pass and outputs a JSON object.  Use \fB\-\-field\fR to print one value,
or \fB\-\-format tsv\fR for tab-separated output suitable for awk/grep.
.PP
Available fields:
.TP
.B Capacity
capacity_count, capacity_sum_msat, capacity_avg_msat, capacity_min_msat,
capacity_max_msat, capacity_stddev_msat, capacity_skewness, capacity_kurtosis,
capacity_gini, capacity_p10/p25/p50/p75/p90_msat, capacity_top10,
capacity_bottom10
.TP
.B Balance ratio
balance_ratio_avg, balance_ratio_min, balance_ratio_max, balance_ratio_stddev,
balance_ratio_variance, balance_ratio_gini, balance_entropy_bits,
imbalanced_count, local_balance_sum_msat, remote_balance_sum_msat,
local_balance_avg_msat, local_balance_stddev_msat
.TP
.B Fees
fee_base_avg_msat, fee_base_stddev_msat, fee_base_min_msat, fee_base_max_msat,
fee_base_total_msat, fee_ppm_avg, fee_ppm_stddev, fee_ppm_min, fee_ppm_max
.TP
.B HTLCs
htlc_count_total, htlc_count_avg, htlc_in_flight_total, htlc_max_avg_msat,
htlc_min_avg_msat
.TP
.B State
active_count, normal_count, pending_count, closing_count, peer_count,
both_reserves_avg_msat
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B stats [\-\-field name] [\-\-format tsv]
Statistical metrics over all channels (see STATS section above).
.TP
.B inspect <channel-id>
Full JSON for one channel including computed fields _local_ratio and _healthy.
.TP
.B active <channel-id>
Returns {channel_id, active, state} for the given channel.
.TP
.B active-count
Returns {active, total} channel counts.
.TP
.B alias-local <channel-id>
Returns the local alias for a channel.
.TP
.B all-fees
Lists fee_base_msat and fee_proportional_millionths for every channel.
.TP
.B anchor <channel-id>
Reports whether the channel uses anchor outputs.
.TP
.B announce <channel-id>
Marks the channel as public (setchannel announce true).
.TP
.B awaiting-unilateral
Lists channels in AWAITING_UNILATERAL state.
.TP
.B balance-check
Reports channels with local ratio below 20% or above 80%.
.TP
.B balance-entropy
Shannon entropy (bits) of channel balance ratios across all channels.
.TP
.B balance-gini
Gini coefficient of local balances across all channels.
.TP
.B check-capacity <channel-id> <amount_msat>
Reports whether the channel can send the requested amount.
.TP
.B cltv-check <channel-id>
Reports our_to_self_delay and their_to_self_delay.
.TP
.B close-all [\-\-force]
Cooperatively closes all channels; requires \-\-force to proceed.
.TP
.B close-all-peers <peer-id>
Closes all CHANNELD_NORMAL channels with the given peer.
.TP
.B disable <channel-id>
Disables routing by setting excessively high fees.
.TP
.B disabled-check
Lists channels that are not in CHANNELD_NORMAL state or not peer-connected.
.TP
.B enable <channel-id> [base_msat ppm]
Re-enables a channel by restoring normal fees (default 1000 msat base, 1 ppm).
.TP
.B fee-earned [<channel-id>]
Fee revenue by channel from settled forwards; optionally filter to one channel.
.TP
.B fee-set <channel-id> <base_msat> <ppm>
Sets fee policy for one channel via positional args.
.TP
.B fee-set-all <base_msat> <ppm>
Sets fee policy on all channels (setchannel all).
.TP
.B feebase-set <channel-id> <base_msat>
Sets the base fee for one channel.
.TP
.B feeppm-set <channel-id> <ppm>
Sets the proportional fee (ppm) for one channel.
.TP
.B force-closeable
Lists channels eligible for force-close (CHANNELD_NORMAL).
.TP
.B health-check <channel-id>
Returns {channel_id, state, peer_connected, healthy} for one channel.
.TP
.B htlc-list [<channel-id>]
In-flight HTLCs for one channel or all channels.
.TP
.B open-batch <peer_id:sat> [...]
Opens multiple channels; each arg is peer_id:sats.
.TP
.B open-check
Reports available on-chain funds for channel opens.
.TP
.B open-dual <peer-id> <sats>
Initiates a dual-funded channel open (openchannel_init).
.TP
.B open-list
Lists CHANNELD_NORMAL channels with peer_id.
.TP
.B open-private <node-uri> <sats>
Opens a private (unannounced) channel.
.TP
.B open-progress
Lists channels in OPENINGD / AWAITING_LOCKIN / DUALOPEND states.
.TP
.B peer-summary
Aggregates channels, capacity, and local balance by peer.
.TP
.B policy-check <channel-id>
Returns local and remote routing policies for a channel.
.TP
.B policy-get <channel-id>
Returns fee_base_msat, fee_proportional_millionths, and HTLC limits.
.TP
.B policy-update <channel-id> <fee_base> <fee_ppm>
Updates the routing fee policy (setchannelfee).
.TP
.B rebalance-auto [\-\-threshold N]
Identifies channels outside the balance threshold (default 20%) as candidates.
.TP
.B rebalance-suggestion
Returns channels that are >80% local (suggest drain) or <20% (suggest fill).
.TP
.B reserve-check <channel-id>
Returns our_reserve_msat and their_reserve_msat for a channel.
.TP
.B set-fee <channel-id> \-\-base <msat> \-\-ppm <ppm>
Sets the fee policy using named flags.
.TP
.B set-private <channel-id>
Marks a channel as private (unannounced).
.TP
.B set-public <channel-id>
Marks a channel as public (announced).
.TP
.B stuck [\-\-minutes N]
Lists channels with HTLCs whose expiry is older than N minutes (default 30).
.TP
.B top-earners [\-\-limit N]
Lists channels by total fee revenue from settled forwards (default top 10).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lightning (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Part of the \fBlightning\fR educational Lightning Network frontend.
